- [Narrator] The next step is to test this code out.
We've already written the user dao,
we've created the user bean,
and we've created the callable implementation.
Now let's test this out.
So, in a test class, the first thing that you have to do is
get a collection of string values from that file.
So let's come to the IDE, under the Tests folder,
let's create a class.
Let's call this TestExecutors,
and let's grab the main method quickly.
Okay, now we're going to write a separate method
to read that file, and get a list of all those lines, okay?
So, I'm going to say public static getUsersFromFile.
The parameter to this will be a file name.
And what is this going to return me?
This is going to return me a list of string.
Each line in the file is one string,
and I'll make such a list of strings.
Okay, now the file reading code
is something that we've already coded
in one of our previous demos,
so I'm not going to write that code again.
I'll pull it out from the AppThread.java class.
Let's come down there, and that was the code
that we'd written for the reading of the file.
So let's take this, copy this from
line number 25 to line number 34,
copy, go back to the TestExecutors class,
and paste it on line 21.
Make sure the imports are provided,
and let's also do one more thing,
let's change the name of the log,
so on line number 35, I'm just going to say,
make this logger for the TestExecutors class.
Right?
So we have the file-reading code ready,
the other change that we have to do is,
the file name parameter is going to be an argument
to the new file constructor.
So let's make that change.
Okay, right, so we're taking the file,
and we're putting a while loop,
and then we're going to read every line.
Now, we're not going to read
and print the line on the console,
because that's not what we want to do,
so let's come down here, on line number 29,
I'm going to define a list of strings.
Let's copy that.
Let's say users, and create a new array list.
Okay.
And what I'm going to do is,
every line that I read from the reader,
on line 34, let's get rid of this line,
and, take that users list, and add every line to it.
There we go.
Okay, we created a list of strings.
And to that list, we are trying to add every line.
So at the end of this loop, you're going to have
the complete information from that file.
Okay?
So at the end of this, we just have to say return users.
That's what it is returning.
So our file-reading code is ready,
and we have got all the user information from that file.
So that was the first step.
The next is, get the ExecutorService object
from one of the factory methods
in the Executors API.
So the important part now, let's come to the main method.
On line number 26, I'm going to now take
the ExecutorService object.
There it is.
Take a reference.
And how are you going to obtain this object?
The same way as we did for the Executer interface
in the last demo.
We're going to use the utility class called Executors.
This is the one.
And we're going to say .newSingleThreadExecute.
There's a single thread that is right now
going to execute for this task, okay?
Okay, once we do this, what is the next step?
For each user, we are going to call
the ExecutorService.submit to submit the task.
So what we're going to do now is,
we're going to get the list of strings,
so we're going to call this method getUsersFromFile
because of that we'll get a list of strings,
okay, and for each user record,
we are going to submit a task by the ExecutorService object.
Okay?
So let's do that.
Let's go in the next line, and call that static method.
So the return will be list of strings,
so copy that from line 33, on line number 29,
give it a reference, and just call that method.
Right?
Of course it will demand the file path,
that can be picked up from your exercise folders,
so let's go there.
And that's the file, so I'm gonna take this path,
copy, come right here, and paste this.
And of course give the name of the file.
So that will be new_users.txt.
Okay.
Once that's done, what next?
I'm going to iterate this list.
So I'm going to say, for every string user in users,
I have to do something.
What is that?
For every user record, I have to submit the runable
or the callable task.
In our case of course it's the callable implementation,
so we're going to submit that task for the UserProcessor.
How're we going to do that?
You have to take the service object,
so I'm going to take service.submit,
that's the method you want to invoke now.
Remember in the Executor API demo,
we had actually called the execute method,
but then the submit method is available
as a part of the ExecutorService,
which will allow us to capture the output
of the task that we want to submit.
Right?
So submit is a method that you want to call here.
And, what are we going to do?
We're going to create an instance of the user processor,
because that's the callable implementation that we have.
So I'm just going to say UserProcessor,
that's the one, and of course its constructor
demands two arguments.
One, is the user record, which is the string
that I've already gotten in the for loop,
the other argument however is the dao object, right?
Okay, so no worries, we'll put a semicolon here,
come on line 31 and create that user dao quickly.
Okay, so what we've done is,
we have read all the users from the file on line 31,
we've created an instance of the dao on line 32,
and for every string user in this list,
we are trying to submit one user processor callable task.
That's what we're doing.
Right?
Okay.
Now, the next step, is collect the output of each task
in the future object.
Okay, so let's go there, and see it.
Future, and this Future was trying to return an integer.
The callable implementation that we have
actually written out is returning integer.
In case you want to recollect that,
just go to UserProcessor, there it is.
You were trying to return an integer value,
so that is what we'll also collect,
as a part of the Future object.
The Future is of integer.
Okay?
Next, what we're going to do?
We have to shut down the ExecutorService
and test the application.
Right.
So, there are a couple of things here,
we have got the Future object,
so the written value of the task
has been captured in the Future object.
Now if you want to see that, there is a way to do it.
What you can do is, you can say sout, okay,
and let's say, Result of the operation is,
and say future.get.
That's how you can retrieve the result of that output.
Okay?
So yes, the result is collected in the Future object
but if you want to access that,
there's an API called get that you have to invoke
in order to see it for yourself.
Okay?
Let's make sure that we handle this exception right.
So basically whenever the submit operation
is going to be interrupted, it's going to throw
an InterruptedException, and let's say something has gone
wrong with the execution of the task,
then ExecutionException will be thrown.
So you will have to make sure that
those exceptions are quickly handled using the catch blocks.
Okay, let's also do one last thing.
Let's come on the line number 45, after the for loop.
Let's put a sys out saying main execution over, okay?
Because there are a lot of things that we're doing.
We got the Executor object,
the service object, in this case,
we read the data from the file,
for each of the lines we are trying to invoke,
or submit, the UserProcessor callable,
and the result of that is obtained
in the Future object, which we will access
using future.get.
And after all of this is complete,
then we put a final statement in the main method,
saying that yes, everything was done.
Okay?
All right, let's save this, and the last step
is of course test the application.
We missed one step, shut down the ExecutorService, great.
So we'll do that first.
Let's come down there, and say service,
that's the ExecutorService, .shutdown.
Okay?
So we said right that the Executor framework
is going to provide a clean shutdown of all the tasks.
That's what we're trying to do.
We're going to talk more about the shutdown API
in the subsequent video, but right now,
let's stick to this that we are starting the service,
and then we're shutting it down on line number 45,
after all the tasks get completed.
Right?
So if there are 10 users in that file,
they'll be 10 callable tasks that will be submitted.
One callable task per user record.
Hope that's clear.
Okay.
All right, so now let's go to the database,
that's the user table that I have,
let's make a select query.
We have nothing, as of now, in that table.
Let's go back to the IDE, and now, we'll run this.
Okay?
And we'll see whether everything goes well.
So, right click and say Run File.
Let's test it out.
Okay, there we are. Great.
So do you see the output?
It's saying pool-1-thread-1-processing record
for Henry Cavell,
and then pool-1-thread-1-processing record for Brad Pitt,
pool-1-thread-1-processing again for Leonardo DiCaprio,
all of these are my favorite actors, so yeah.
And why is it pool-1-thread-1?
That's because take a look.
We said newSingleThreadExecutor.
That's exactly why there's a single thread
that is trying to insert every user record in the database.
Right?
So let's quickly check the database
and see if the user records indeed came in.
Yeah, we got that.
Right?
So this was a background task that we spawn,
in order to process user information,
and save each entry into the database.
And all of this, we did with the ExecutorService.
The rest of the stuff we will see in the next video.